Summary:

The goal of the project is to show by using graphics and animation that it was women who survived the sinking of 
the titanic. And of the men who did survive it was Rich men who fared far better than the rest. 

Design:

I initially wanted to make two simple bar graphs. One showing the breakdown of the number of survivors by gender 
and the other by class. These would be animated to first show the number of passengers in each break down and then
change to show the number of survivors. I chose bar graphs because I think given the data I wanted to display they seem to be 
the simplest and easiest graph for users to understand. Also, looking through all the graphs I think it's always
much easier to understand bar graphs as opposed to other graphs. Line graphs and scatter plot are sometimes good as
well but for this data - bar graphs I feel definitely make the most sense.


Feedback:

Subsequent to the initial design but prior to showing friends I decided it would be 
nice to have an addtional graph that shows the total number of passengers as a group and then the total number of 
survivors. I was going to present this as a bar graph too but then I thought I should display the 
numeric number of passengers and survivors as well and I thought that a bar graph with axes for the count would be
over kill. Plus I thought one bar in a bar graph wouldn't look good because I wanted all the graphs to change to show
first the number passengers in a particular category and then the number of survivors. So I opted instead to show this
simple total graph as just a circle whose size would change according to whether it was representing all passengers or
just all survivors. There were three big changes I got from the feedback. One - in the first iteration the height of 
the second and third graphs required the user to scroll down to see the x axix labels but this was irritating and 
difficult to do in the middle of an animation. All three friends suggested that I change this. Which I did by just making 
the graph smaller on the page. Strangely enough this did make it quite better. Second two of my friends suggested a 
label on the class bar graph to more clearly show that the numbers 1, 2, and 3 were the class categories. They understood 
these were class catergories but it wasn't immediatly apparent. It took them a half second to get it.  Finally one of my
friends wanted to stop the animation to look at each graph more closely. Because of this I knew I needed to add 
an interactive screen at the end of the animation which would allow them to do this. In addition, all my friends could not 
immediatly see what I was going after in showing the graph, namely that socioeconomic conditions greatly influenced a 
passengers chances of survival. 

After submitting my project and getting feedback from a reviewer I realized I needed to drastically change my graphs to show 
the two main take aways that I wanted any viewer to get from my story. Namely, women survived the sinking of the titanic in 
far greater proportion than men and that of the men who did surive it was Rich men who survived in far greater numbers. So 
anything that did not contribute to these two main points I tried to eliminate. And I tried to make these points as clear as
possible. So, the first thing I did was delete the first graph that just show how many passengers there were and how many 
survived. Second, I decided to eliminate the graph changes that just show total number of passengers by gender and then changed
to show total number that survived. Because this didn't clearly show the percentages of each gender who survived. So I changed
this animated graph to a still graph so viewers can compare the survival percentage rate by gender and then in the next graph
the survival percentage rate by class for men only. In addition, I decided to change the color scheme of the bars to highlight
my story. So in the first graph that compares survival rate by gender I used the classic lightblue to represent males and pink
to represent females. In the second graph I wanted to highlight that rich men surive so I colored the first class male survival 
percentage in gold and 2nd and 3rd class in gray. With all these changes I think it's now clear and obvious what I want any 
viewer to take away from this anaylysis. One: women survive. Two: Rich men survive. This may not seem like such a surprising 
finding until one realizes that this tragedy is probably the norm throughout history.  

Resources:

StackOverflow.com
http://bost.ocks.org/mike/


